Add ingress-autoscale example (#252)
IBM-Cloud/kube-samples: ingress-examples/autoscale/README.md

# Enabling autoscaling based on custom metrics for IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service Ingress ALBs

> The ALBs expose [various metrics](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/user-guide/monitoring/#exposed-metrics) including request statistics and nginx process metrics. These metrics can be captured and aggregated by a metric collector, such as [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/overview/) and made available to Kubernetes HPA using [Prometheus Adapter](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/prometheus-adapter).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ALBs expose [various metrics](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/user-guide/monitoring/#exposed-metrics) including request statistics and Nginx process metrics. These metrics can be captured and aggregated by a metric collector, such as [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/overview/) and made available to Kubernetes HPA by using [Prometheus Adapter](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/prometheus-adapter).
```

Depending on your use case, you might want to scale your ALBs based on custom metrics, for example based on the number of incoming requests per second or the number of established connections. In the followings we present an example on setting up autoscaling based on custom metrics. With this example you can get started easily on designing your custom metrics based setup. Please note that the configuration in this example is not a production ready setup, but a simple deployment for demonstration purposes.

> For more information about autoscaling, checkout our [official documentation](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-ingress-alb-manage#alb_replicas_autoscaler).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information about autoscaling, check out our [official documentation](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-ingress-alb-manage#alb_replicas_autoscaler).
```

## Setup

> 1. Replace the `<editme>` with your host and secret name in the `host`, `hosts` and `secretName` fields in the `example-deployment/example-ingress.yaml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Replace the `<editme>` with your host and secret name in the `host`, `hosts`, and `secretName` fields in the `example-deployment/example-ingress.yaml` file.
```

2. Now you can deploy an example application with ingress, Prometheus, and Prometheus adapter:
    * create `alb-autoscale-example` namespace for the new application with `kubectl apply -f alb-autoscale-example/autoscale-example-namespace.yaml` command. The new namespace will appear immediately:

    ```
    $ kubectl get ns alb-autoscale-example
    NAME                    STATUS   AGE
    alb-autoscale-example   Active   13s
    ```

>     * deploy Promethus with `kubectl apply --kustomize alb-autoscale-example/prometheus` command. This will create a `prometheus-server` deployment in `alb-autoscale-example` namespace:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Deploy Promethus with `kubectl apply --kustomize alb-autoscale-example/prometheus` command. This will create a `prometheus-server` deployment in `alb-autoscale-example` namespace:
```

    ```
    $ kubectl get deployment -n alb-autoscale-example prometheus-server
    NAME                READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
    prometheus-server   1/1     1            1           30s
    ```

>     * deploy Prometheus Adapter with `kubectl apply --kustomize alb-autoscale-example/prometheus-adapter` command. This will create a `alb-prometheus-adapter` deployment in `alb-autoscale-example` namespace. Note: the `alb-autoscale-example/prometheus-adapter/configmap.yaml` contains the description of the `nginx_ingress_controller_requests_rate` custom metric.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Deploy Prometheus Adapter with `kubectl apply --kustomize alb-autoscale-example/prometheus-adapter` command. This will create a `alb-prometheus-adapter` deployment in `alb-autoscale-example` namespace. Note: the `alb-autoscale-example/prometheus-adapter/configmap.yaml` contains the description of the `nginx_ingress_controller_requests_rate` custom metric.
```

    ```
    $ kubectl get deployment -n alb-autoscale-example alb-prometheus-adapter
    NAME                     READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
    alb-prometheus-adapter   1/1     1            1           50s
    ```

>     * deploy the test application with `kubectl apply --kustomize alb-autoscale-example/example-deployment` command. This will create a `alb-autoscale-example` deployment in `alb-autoscale-example` namespace:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * Deploy the test application with `kubectl apply --kustomize alb-autoscale-example/example-deployment` command. This will create a `alb-autoscale-example` deployment in `alb-autoscale-example` namespace:
```

    ```
    $ kubectl get deployment -n alb-autoscale-example alb-autoscale-example-deployment
    NAME                               READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
    alb-autoscale-example-deployment   1/1     1            1           81s
    ```

>     * when the deployment is ready, open the example application to generate some traffic so the `nginx_ingress_controller_requests_rate` metric has values. Use the host you defined in the `example-deployment/example-ingress.yaml` file, example output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * When the deployment is ready, open the example application to generate some traffic so the `nginx_ingress_controller_requests_rate` metric has values. Use the host you defined in the `example-deployment/example-ingress.yaml` file, example output:
```

    {
      "kind": "MetricValueList",
      "apiVersion": "custom.metrics.k8s.io/v1beta2",
      "metadata": {},
      "items": [
        {
          "describedObject": {
            "kind": "Ingress",
            "namespace": "alb-autoscale-example",
            "name": "alb-autoscale-example-ingress",
            "apiVersion": "networking.k8s.io/v1"
          },
          "metric": {
            "name": "nginx_ingress_controller_requests_rate",
            "selector": null
          },
          "timestamp": "2023-08-08T09:11:02Z",
          "value": "0"
        }
      ]
    }
    ```

    * If the above command fails even after 10 minutes, review the `apiservice v1beta2.custom.metrics.k8s.io` APIService: `AVAILABLE` must be `True`, otherwise you will need to check the `alb-prometheus-adapter` Service and `alb-prometheus-adapter` deployment in `alb-autoscale-example` namespace:

    ```
    ➜ kubectl get apiservice v1beta2.custom.metrics.k8s.io
    NAME                            SERVICE                                        AVAILABLE   AGE
    v1beta2.custom.metrics.k8s.io   alb-autoscale-example/alb-prometheus-adapter   True        15m
    ```

> 4. Enable autoscaling with `ibmcloud ks ingress alb autoscale set -c <clusterID> --alb <albID> --min-replicas 1 --max-replicas 2 --custom-metrics-file custom-metrics.yaml` command. After a few minutes, you should see the following output:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Enable autoscaling with `ibmcloud ks ingress alb autoscale set -c <clusterID> --alb <albID> --min-replicas 1 --max-replicas 2 --custom-metrics-file custom-metrics.yaml` command. After a few minutes, you see the following output:
```

> # ALB autoscale custom metrics example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Enabling autoscaling based on custom metrics for IBM Cloud Kubernetes Service Ingress ALBs
```

> When we want to use ALB metrics for autoscaling, we need a Prometheus what can scrape the ALB metrics, a Prometheus Adapter what can serve the custom metrics API to provide these metrics for the Horizontal Pod Autoscaler. This is example setup for `nginx_ingress_controller_requests_rate` custom metric with a simple, example application. Please note, the followings aren't intended to be deployed in production as-is, but rather serving as an example to help you get started configuring your setup. You can find the doc for the ALB autoscale doc [here](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-ingress-alb-manage#alb_replicas_autoscaler). For configuring custom metrics you can find the list of exposed metrics by the ALB in the [ingress-nginx documentation](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/user-guide/monitoring/#exposed-metrics).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The ALBs expose [various metrics](https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/user-guide/monitoring/#exposed-metrics) including request statistics and nginx process metrics. These metrics can be captured and aggregated by a metric collector, such as [Prometheus](https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/overview/) and made available to Kubernetes HPA using [Prometheus Adapter](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/prometheus-adapter).

Depending on your use case, you might want to scale your ALBs based on custom metrics, for example based on the number of incoming requests per second or the number of established connections. In the followings we present an example on setting up autoscaling based on custom metrics. With this example you can get started easily on designing your custom metrics based setup. Please note that the configuration in this example is not a production ready setup, but a simple deployment for demonstration purposes.

For more information about autoscaling, checkout our [official documentation](https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/containers?topic=containers-ingress-alb-manage#alb_replicas_autoscaler).
```

> ## Custom metrics

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Setup
```

1. Replace the `<editme>` with your host and secret name in the `host`, `hosts` and `secretName` fields in the `example-deployment/example-ingress.yaml` file.

2. Now you can deploy an example application with ingress, Prometheus, and Prometheus adapter:
    * create `alb-autoscale-example` namespace for the new application with `kubectl apply -f alb-autoscale-example/autoscale-example-namespace.yaml` command. The new namespace will appear immediately:

    ```bash
    $ kubectl get ns alb-autoscale-example
    NAME                    STATUS   AGE
    alb-autoscale-example   Active   13s
    ```

>     * create Promethus with `kubectl apply --kustomize alb-autoscale-example/prometheus` command. This will create a `prometheus-server` deployment in `alb-autoscale-example` namespace:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * deploy Promethus with `kubectl apply --kustomize alb-autoscale-example/prometheus` command. This will create a `prometheus-server` deployment in `alb-autoscale-example` namespace:
```

    ```bash
    $ kubectl get deployment -n alb-autoscale-example prometheus-server
    NAME                READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
    prometheus-server   1/1     1            1           30s
    ```

>     * create Prometheus Adapter with `kubectl apply --kustomize alb-autoscale-example/prometheus-adapter` command. This will create a `alb-prometheus-adapter` deployment in `alb-autoscale-example` namespace. Note: the `alb-autoscale-example/prometheus-adapter/configmap.yaml` contains the description of the `nginx_ingress_controller_requests_rate` custom metric.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * deploy Prometheus Adapter with `kubectl apply --kustomize alb-autoscale-example/prometheus-adapter` command. This will create a `alb-prometheus-adapter` deployment in `alb-autoscale-example` namespace. Note: the `alb-autoscale-example/prometheus-adapter/configmap.yaml` contains the description of the `nginx_ingress_controller_requests_rate` custom metric.
```

    ```bash
    $ kubectl get deployment -n alb-autoscale-example alb-prometheus-adapter
    NAME                     READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
    alb-prometheus-adapter   1/1     1            1           50s
    ```

>     * create the test application with `kubectl apply --kustomize alb-autoscale-example/example-deployment` command. This will create a `alb-autoscale-example` deployment in `alb-autoscale-example` namespace:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * deploy the test application with `kubectl apply --kustomize alb-autoscale-example/example-deployment` command. This will create a `alb-autoscale-example` deployment in `alb-autoscale-example` namespace:
```

    ```bash
    $ kubectl get deployment -n alb-autoscale-example alb-autoscale-example-deployment
    NAME                               READY   UP-TO-DATE   AVAILABLE   AGE
    alb-autoscale-example-deployment   1/1     1            1           81s
    ```

>     * when the deployment is ready, please open the example application to generate some metrics for the `nginx_ingress_controller_requests_rate` custom metric. It can be reachable on the host that you defined in the `example-deployment/example-ingress.yaml` file, example output:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * when the deployment is ready, open the example application to generate some traffic so the `nginx_ingress_controller_requests_rate` metric has values. Use the host you defined in the `example-deployment/example-ingress.yaml` file, example output:
```

        "x-request-id": "4780c7a0baa98c993d474be463c8b643",
        "x-real-ip": "10.189.192.233",
        "x-forwarded-for": "10.189.192.233",
        "x-forwarded-host": "pvg-classic-od16r554ux7-1e7743ca80a399c9cff4eaf617434c72-0000.us-south.stg.containers.appdomain.cloud",
        "x-forwarded-port": "443",
        "x-forwarded-proto": "https",
        "x-forwarded-scheme": "https",
        "x-scheme": "https",
        "user-agent": "curl/7.88.1",
        "accept": "*/*"
      },
      "method": "GET",
      "body": "",
      "fresh": false,
      "hostname": "pvg-classic-od16r554ux7-1e7743ca80a399c9cff4eaf617434c72-0000.us-south.stg.containers.appdomain.cloud",
      "ip": "10.189.192.233",
      "ips": [
        "10.189.192.233"
      ],
      "protocol": "https",
      "query": {},
      "subdomains": [
        "containers",
        "stg",
        "us-south",
        "pvg-classic-od16r554ux7-1e7743ca80a399c9cff4eaf617434c72-0000"
      ],
      "xhr": false,
      "os": {
        "hostname": "alb-autoscale-example-deployment-56875c56f5-njm8h"
      },
      "connection": {}
    }
    ```

> 3. After a few minutes, you can use the following commands to see the new custom metric: `kubectl get --raw "/apis/custom.metrics.k8s.io/v1beta2/namespaces/alb-autoscale-example/ingress/alb-autoscale-example-ingress/nginx_ingress_controller_requests_rate" | jq .`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. After a few minutes, you can use the following command to see that the custom metric is available for the Kubernetes metrics-server:
```

    ```bash
    $ kubectl get --raw "/apis/custom.metrics.k8s.io/v1beta2/namespaces/alb-autoscale-example/ingress/alb-autoscale-example-ingress/nginx_ingress_controller_requests_rate"
    {
      "kind": "MetricValueList",
      "apiVersion": "custom.metrics.k8s.io/v1beta2",
      "metadata": {},
      "items": [
        {
          "describedObject": {
            "kind": "Ingress",
            "namespace": "alb-autoscale-example",
            "name": "alb-autoscale-example-ingress",
            "apiVersion": "networking.k8s.io/v1"
          },
          "metric": {
            "name": "nginx_ingress_controller_requests_rate",
            "selector": null
          },
          "timestamp": "2023-08-08T09:11:02Z",
          "value": "0"
        }
      ]
    }
    ```

>     * When the `kubectl get --raw "/apis/custom.metrics.k8s.io/v1beta2/namespaces/alb-autoscale-example/ingress/alb-autoscale-example-ingress/nginx_ingress_controller_requests_rate" | jq .` command is not working after 10 minutes, please review the `apiservice v1beta2.custom.metrics.k8s.io` apiservice, the `AVAILABLE` must be `true`, otherwise check the `alb-prometheus-adapter` service and `alb-prometheus-adapter` in `alb-autoscale-example` namespace:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    * If the above command fails even after 10 minutes, review the `apiservice v1beta2.custom.metrics.k8s.io` APIService: `AVAILABLE` must be `True`, otherwise you will need to check the `alb-prometheus-adapter` Service and `alb-prometheus-adapter` deployment in `alb-autoscale-example` namespace:
```

    ```bash
    ➜ kubectl get apiservice v1beta2.custom.metrics.k8s.io
    NAME                            SERVICE                                        AVAILABLE   AGE
    v1beta2.custom.metrics.k8s.io   alb-autoscale-example/alb-prometheus-adapter   True        15m
    ```

> 4. Enable the autoscale with `ibmcloud ks ingress alb autoscale set -c <clusterID> --alb <albID> --min-replicas 1 --max-replicas 2 --custom-metrics-file custom-metric.yaml` command. After a few minutes, you should see the following output:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Enable autoscaling with `ibmcloud ks ingress alb autoscale set -c <clusterID> --alb <albID> --min-replicas 1 --max-replicas 2 --custom-metrics-file custom-metrics.yaml` command. After a few minutes, you should see the following output:
```

```bash
➜  ~ kubectl get svc -n alb-autoscale-example
NAME                            TYPE        CLUSTER-IP       EXTERNAL-IP   PORT(S)          AGE
alb-autoscale-example-service   ClusterIP   172.21.41.173    <none>        80/TCP           4d20h
alb-prometheus-adapter          ClusterIP   172.21.246.127   <none>        443/TCP          4d20h
prometheus                      NodePort    172.21.252.23    <none>        9090:32415/TCP   4d20h
```

* Than you need a node external IP:

  ```bash
  ➜  ~ kubectl get nodes -o wide
  NAME             STATUS   ROLES    AGE    VERSION        INTERNAL-IP      EXTERNAL-IP      OS-IMAGE             KERNEL-VERSION      CONTAINER-RUNTIME
  10.189.192.233   Ready    <none>   6d9h   v1.25.12+IKS   10.189.192.233   169.59.133.189   Ubuntu 20.04.6 LTS   5.4.0-155-generic   containerd://1.6.21
  10.189.192.235   Ready    <none>   6d9h   v1.25.12+IKS   10.189.192.235   169.59.133.173   Ubuntu 20.04.6 LTS   5.4.0-155-generic   containerd://1.6.21
  ```

* Open your browser and visit the following URL: http://{node IP address}:{prometheus-svc-nodeport} to load the Prometheus Dashboard.

> * You can find more details about the metrics here: <https://kubernetes.github.io/ingress-nginx/user-guide/monitoring/#prometheus-dashboard>

Reviewer 2: I think we can remove these

Author: Done
